OSCON 2004 Notes
meta-keywords: OSCon, open-source, O'Reilly Open Source Convention, 2004

<p>I'm finally getting round to typing up my thoughts on my OSCon 2004
experience. I would've done it sooner, but I spent most of last week on
the road and fixing bugs in Bricolage.</p>

<p>OSCon 2004 was, in a word, <em>great!</em> I spent every day of the week
there, getting there around 8:30 each morning, and finally leaving the hotel
or a party each night somewhere between midnight and 3 am. I was even there
late on Sunday night, talking to folks who just came in, and late on Friday
night, at a party in <a href="http://use.perl.org/~matts/journal/" title="Matt
Sergeant's Journal">Matt Sergeant's</a> room. It was great to see so many
friends there, including <a href="http://use.perl.org/~cwest/journal"
title="Casey West's Journal">Casey</a>, <a
href="http://use.perl.org/~schwern/journal" title="Schwern's
Journal">Schwern</a> <a href="http://pallas.eruditorum.org/" title="Jesse
Vincent's Journal">Jesse</a>, <a href="http://use.perl.org/~gnat/journal"
title="Nat Torkington's Journal">Nat</a>, <a href="http://candle.pha.pa.us/"
title="Bruce Momjian's Website">Bruce</a>, <a href="http://www.agliodbs.com/"
title="AglioDBS">Josh</a>, <a href="http://fetter.org/~shackle/" title="David
Fetter's Website">David</a>, <a href="http://www.varlena.com/" title="Elein
Mutain's Company">Elein</a>, <a href="http://www.sidhe.org/~dan/blog/"
title="Squaks of the Parrot">Dan</a>, <a
href="http://use.perl.org/~nicholas/journal" title="Nicholas Clark's
Journal">Nicholas</a>, <a href="http://www.whoot.org/" title="James Duncan's
Blog">James</a>, <a href="http://use.perl.org/~sky/journal" title="Arthur
Bergman's Journal">Arthur</a>, <a href="http://use.perl.org/~robrt/journal"
title="Robert Spier's Journal">Robert</a>, <a
href="http://www.askbjoernhansen.com/" title="Ask Bj&oslash;rn Hansen's Blog">Ask</a>
and Vani, my brother, <a href="http://www.alexwheeler.net/" title="Alex's
Website">Alex</a>, and probably lots of other people I'm forgetting about.</p>

<p>There were more conversations between members of different communities than
I can recall seeing at past OSCons, and people were generally excited and
engaged. I'm told that they had the highest number of attendees since 2001.
The energy at the conference was very positive, and people seemed very
interested in things that other people were doing. Some of the highlights for
me:</p>

<dl>
  <dt><a href="http://conferences.oreillynet.com/cs/os2004/view/e_sess/5049"
  title="Chasing the Dragon: Compiling PHP to Run on Parrot">PHP on
  Parrot</a></dt>
  <dd><p>Speakers Sterling Hughes and Thies C. Arntzen talked about how amped
      they are at the idea of poring PHP to run on Parrot, the virtual machine
      being developed for Perl 6 and other dynamic languages. The session
      ended up as a conversation between Sterling and Thies, on the one hand,
      and Larry Wall and Dan Sugalski, who were sitting in the front row, on
      the other. Larry assured them that any programming language community's
      members would be <q>first-class citizens</q> in the Parrot world, and
      Dan told them that all they need do is ask for things they need and the
      Parrot developers would help as much as they could. Sterling wrapped up
      by saying something like, <q>I guess the real reason we're so excited
      about Parrot is because we really love Perl!</q> That got a good
      laugh.</p></dd>

  <dt><a href="http://conferences.oreillynet.com/cs/os2004/view/e_sess/5359"
  title="State of PostgreSQL">PostgreSQL</a></dt>
  <dd><p>There was a bigger PostgreSQL presence than ever at OSCon this year,
      with lots of great discussion. There seemed to be quite a few Perl folks
      going to the PostgreSQL sessions, too. Dan Sugalski was suitably
      impressed with what's coming up in PostgreSQL 8.0 (formerly 7.5) that he
      told me that he was moving up his plans for implementing pl/Parrot. A
      few of the core PostgreSQL folks said that they felt like people were
      finally being more open and exited about their use of PostgreSQL, rather
      than keeping quiet about this <q>strategic advantage.</q> And the
      features in 8.0 sound extremely promising, including Win32 support, save
      points/nested transactions, point-in-time recovery, tablespaces, and
      pl/Perl. It's going to be a kick-ass release, no doubt about it. Watch
      for the beta this week.</p></dd>

  <dt><a href="http://conferences.oreillynet.com/cs/os2004/view/e_sess/5701"
title=" Introducing SQLite version 3.0 ">SQLite</a></dt>
  <dd><p>SQLite is fast, ACID-compliant, relational database engine in a
      public-domain C library. It's great for embedding into an application
      because it's not a client-server application, but a simple library that
      stores databases in files. It's twice as fast as MySQL or PostgreSQL
      because it doesn't have the client/server overhead, and its extremely
      portable. Version 3.0 adds UTF-8 and UTF-16, which makes it a real
      possibility for use in Bricolage 2.0 (for small installations and demo
      servers, for example).</p>

    <p>I was pretty amazed at what this little database
      can do, and not only is it open-source, but because it is in the public
      domain, there are <em>no</em> constraints on its use. It's just one sexy
      library. Everybody run out and use it now! Perl users get it for free by
      installing <a href="http://search.cpan.org/dist/DBD-SQLite/"
      title="DBD::SQLite on CPAN">DBD::SQLite</a> from CPAN.</p></dd>

  <dt><a href="http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/oscon2004/friday/index.html" title="The Dan Sugalski Pie Series">Pie</a></dt>
  <dd><p>A year later, Dan lost the bet with Guido, and gave him a case of
      beer, ten bucks, and the right to put pie in his face. Dan even made two
      key-lime pies for the occasion! At the Python lightening talks, Guido
      graciously declined to pie Dan. The Pythoners seemed to think that this
      was very nice of Guido, but the Perlers in the audience (including yours
      truly), were shouting, <q>Get him! Give him the pie! Do it, Guido!</q>.
      As Allison commented later, it's nice how <q>the Perl community takes
      care of its own.</q></p>

    <p>Dan later auctioned off the right for someone else to pie him in the
      face. Schwern ponied (heh) up the cash, a ca. $500 donation to
      the Perl foundation for the right, but gave it to Ponie developer
      Nicholas to enjoy. The event came off just ahead of the final keynote.
      This time Guido decided to go ahead, and he doused Dan in cream pie.
      Then Nicholas came out and gave Dan the dessert, so to speak. Great fun
      for all.</p>

    <p>The upshot, according to Dan, is that Guido wrote a really evil test
      suite with seven tests exercising 75% of Python's ops. Of the seven
      tests, Dan got 4 working on Parrot, and 3 of those were 2-3 times faster
      than on Python. Things look very good indeed for Parrot going forward.
      Look for the tests to be fully working on Parrot (and fast!) in the next
      few months.</p></dd>
</dl>

<p>There were parties and conversations every night, lots of great talk, good
food, good friends, and, well, I just had a great time. I can't wait until
next year's OSCon!</p>
