MoveOn.org Voter Registration Party
meta-keywords: vote, voter, voter registration, MoveOn, MoveOn.org, voter registration party

<form action="http://www.moveonpac.org/vote/index.html" id="register_to_vote" style="float: right; width: 219px; margin: 0 0 10px 10px; padding-bottom: 3px; background-color: #092A88; color: #ffffff; text-align: center;">
      <div>
    <a href="http://www.moveonpac.org/vote/"
       title="Register to vote"><img src="http://www.moveonpac.org/images/register_vote_215.gif" style="padding: 2px; border: 0; margin: 0;" alt="Register to Vote!" /></a>
    <input type="hidden" name="country" value="United States" />
    <label for="votereg">Email</label>
    <input id="votereg" type="text" size="15" name="email" />
    <input type="submit" name="go" value="Start" />
    </div>
</form>

<p>We just hosted our first <a href="http://www.moveonpac.org/" title="MoveOn
PAC">MoveOn.org</a> voter registration party. (You <em>are</em> registered to
vote, aren't you? If not, register <a href="http://www.moveonpac.org/vote/"
title="Register to vote">register here</a>.) Julie did all the hard work of
organizing the party, preparing the munchies, going through MoveOn's rather
overwhelming and confusing instructions to make things simple for the rest of
us, and getting the lists of unregistered voters to call. She's great at the
organizational stuff, and that the party was a success is due to her hard
work.</p>

<p>We had 10 participants, and each of us called 24-36 people, mainly women in
Florida who didn't vote in the last presidential election. We registered three
voters. Yes, only three! Most of the phone numbers we called were disconnected
or wrong numbers. We left messages on several answering machines. And when we
did get through to people, we often got replies such as:</p>

<blockquote>
  <p><em>Click.</em></p>
  <p><q>I'm not interested.</q></p>
  <p><q>I don't believe that my vote counts for anything.</q></p>
  <p><q>I don't believe that women should be allowed to vote.</q> [Yes, a woman said that.]</p>
  <p><q>Please don't call again.</q></p>
  <p><q>I'm registered. I vote. I <em>always</em> vote!</q></p>
</blockquote>

<p>Rather incredible, really. So how was it a success, you ask? Well, MoveOn
ran out of numbers for us to call. After we went through all the numbers we
had, they had no more to offer. Over 15,000 people signed up to participate in
today's event. Probably more actually participated, since we, at least, had
2-3 people participate who hadn't signed up. And we did manage to register a
few voters, and leave messages on answering machines telling folks to visit
the MoveOn PAC Web site or their local department of motor vehicles to
register. We'll know for sure what happened when MoveOn reports the results in
the next few days, but if we managed to register only 5,000 voters, it could
make a difference in the outcome in November. And that's what we're really
hoping to achieve.</p>
